---
title: "Layoff Prep"
date: "2023-09-14"
---

Well, it has been quite some time since I've added a new installment on here... although not for lack of content (the amount of notes I have accumulated is... /sigh lol alot). Anyways, considering I have been given the boot recently (along with everyone else and their mom) I wanted to add something on here, hopefully a reminder to my future self.

Although I am not a stranger to layoffs, I used to work in the film industry (layoffs are common practice and can be quite frequent), the main lesson I learned from my time there was always have a cushion because you never know. 

Fast-forward to present, a few things other things came up where I was like... you know... I should keep this in mind. So with that said, to my future self (or anyone that may stumble up on this), I present a collection. May you find this helpful.

## Give 'em the boot

- No matter what, always put money aside... anything is better than nothing you'll be happy your past self did this especially if the company you work at decides to boot you
- Always back up anything you'd like to keep (frequently)
- Never attach your work email to things unless absolutely necessary (if possible, attach a backup email you won't lose access to), ie: learning platforms, courses, etc
- Adding to this, if you got something like ADP make sure you register with a personal email that is not through something like Okta/work email
- Don't procrastinate on benefits, ie: health insurance, 401K, etc
- Speaking of benefits, did your company offer equity? Look into that sooner rather than later
- If you can get certain expenses reimbursed, do it right away
- Avoid borrowing vacation time (if something like that is available)
- Pay attention. There will be announcements, meetings, emails, etc-- really hear what is being said (or not said). When things sound tight/furloughs and the like are being entertained... most likely (no matter what they say) layoffs are most definitely on the table
- Try to avoid doing time sheets super early, do them as they come because surprise you may come back from medical leave/vacation/etc and get a surprise "don't let the door hit you on the way out" meeting. You probably could have used remaining PTO depending on circumstance.
- Be aware of unemployment benefits in your state. What's needed? Health insurance? Or will you do Cobra?
- Speaking of health insurance, factor that in into your 'just in case savings'
- Connect with co-workers actively (ie: LinkedIn) instead of trying to remember who you may have missed after the fact
- Speaking of connections, ask for LinkedIn recommendations along the way (while things are fresh), at the very least you have something to look at when you feel like you suck at life. Although, career coach people assure it helps with the job hunt (who knows, but def can't hurt).
- Adding to this, feedback, if you ever got any from co-workers... save them as they come. If you do not do this you risk losing real nuggets of tips/suggestions/etc. Again, at the very least, depending on the feedback, it can help on those poo feels of the day.
- Your company is not family, bffs, w.e-- I cannot stress this enough. Yes, you will meet wonderful people, make friends, care for people, yadda yadda yadda... and when you get kicked to the curb (or leave by choice) see how many of those stick around (lol), from past experience, not many (if at all). Now, this isn't to say be a d***, but be aware of this possibility so you're not blindsided by this very likely scenario.
- If you are able to take a breather before jumping into the hunt, take it. Things tend to get put on the backlog and can accumulate fast when/if priortizing work above other things while employed.


That's all I got, for now.

✨ Positive vibes on this new chapter ✨