---
title: "tailwind sprinkles"
date: "2024-02-07"
---

Tailwind works by scanning all files (HTML/JS components/etc) and generates corresponding styles into a static CSS file. There are various ways to incporporate CSS; stylized components, emotion, etc. While these tend to be tied to React, Tailwind is not.

Putting some Tailwind into the mix, as per _ush_ (pronounced _yoush_) let's `npm i` stuff... tailwind, postcss and autoprefixer

tailwind (compiler) will make that CSS sheet I mentioned up there somewhere + postCSS + autoprefixer which is basically Babel (transpiler), but for CSS. Meaning you can write modern code and it'll do some backwards compatible magic to work with older browsers.

Why 3 things instead of just one... well, this way w.e may get versioned up doesnt affect the other stuff. I guess in short, none are dependant of eachother and can update as needed without tracking eachother as dependencies.

And noooow let's get it...

[tailwind - docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation)

- `npx tailwindcss init -p` spits out a starter config file for tailwind and for postcss (that's what adding the `-p` does).

- when putting tailwind directives into your css, ie: `@tailwind base;` you may not dig the squiggly lines that show up... you can silence that in your settings. I'm using vscode presently; `command + ,` check out your `settings.json` and add `"css.lint.unknownAtRules": "ignore"`.

- useful plugin for editor: `Tailwind CSS IntelliSense`

- plugin that sorts your classes: [prettier-plugin-tailwindcss](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss)

As for actually styling with tailwind, some stuff can be a bit intuitive just from using css in general like `m-0` is `margin: 0`, either way, you can always take a look at the [docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/responsive-design).

After using tailwind for a bit you may find yourself copy/pasting, something that would normally be put into some class. In general, tailwind doesn't vibe with the typical css way of doing things, but there is a way to have reusable type styles if you happen to have such a case. But, be forewarned of slippery slopeness.

example:
```
@layer components {
  .search-input {
    @apply mb-5 block w-60;
  }
}

@layer utilities {
  .grayed-out-disabled {
    @apply disabled:opacity-50;
  }
}
```

If you recall, upon installing tailwind, the css file that would have housed all the css classes/etc ended up with 3 directives. 2 of those are used in the example above, ie: components and utilities.

note: 
- base layer; default styles (conflicting css, takes least priority)
- components layer; the usual styles, css classes type stuff 
- utilities layer; modifier type classes, like disabled (takes highest priority)

lastly, yes, you are able to write css in those up there, but when in tailwind universe do as the tailwinders do.
