posts/2024-02-26-[80]-contributing.md, before:

---
title: "contributing"
date: "2024-02-26"
---

One of my first contributions to a project (that wasn't some team of people I had met prior) was FCC (FreeCodeCamp) with a couple of random ones for my first Hacktober. I've been wanting to contribute again and after doing a React refresher I figured why not contribute to that. So, I made some notes as I went along at what I could 'fix' and today when I sat down to get started I realized I had left my notes behind (lol), but more importantly I wasn't sure how I did it last time... _did I fork it? What did I do first?_

Turns out, yes that is exactly first stop... fork it.

- fork it
- clone it (your fork) -- if you've ever worked with a team this step should be familiar territory as the steps that follow.
- create a folder on your machine on where it will go and run the `git clone` cmd
    - you may see that your fork is behind some commits, if so, `git pull` from original repo.
        - example: `git pull <https://github.com/somebody/whatever-project-name.git main`
        - you can then update your fork with `git push`
- create a branch, give it some form of description
- make your changes; add, commit, push
- create a PR (pull request)
- describe what your PR is about (what changes it entails)
- once done, submit away

Now you wait on feedback...

- keep an eye out for any questions/concerns/etc about your changes and be prepared to appease/explain/etc
- changes approved? your PR will be merged in.

Take a moment, do a happy dance or whatever your vibe is and repeat the process either on the same project or another one you may have found in the wild.

Note: I may be back to flesh out any of the steps once I reunite with my notes :D

Commit message:

add: spacing + details to creating a branch

posts/2024-02-26-[80]-contributing.md, after:

---
title: "contributing"
date: "2024-02-26"
---

One of my first contributions to a project (that wasn't some team of people I had met prior) was FCC (FreeCodeCamp) with a couple of random ones for my first Hacktober. I've been wanting to contribute again and after doing a React refresher I figured why not contribute to that. So, I made some notes as I went along at what I could 'fix' and today when I sat down to get started I realized I had left my notes behind (lol), but more importantly I wasn't sure how I did it last time... _did I fork it? What did I do first?_

Turns out, yes that is exactly first stop... fork it.

- fork it

- clone it (your fork) -- if you've ever worked with a team this step should be familiar territory as the steps that follow.

- create a folder on your machine on where it will go and run the `git clone` cmd
    - you may see that your fork is behind some commits, if so, `git pull` from original repo.
        - example: `git pull <https://github.com/somebody/whatever-project-name.git main`
        - you can then update your fork with `git push`

- create a branch, give it some form of description
    - `git checkout -b whatever-you-decide-to-name-your-branch-goes-here`
        - this creates the branch (`-b` is shorthand for branch) and puts you on it due to `checkout`

- make your changes; add, commit, push


- create a PR (pull request)

- describe what your PR is about (what changes it entails)

- once done, submit away

Now you wait on feedback...

- keep an eye out for any questions/concerns/etc about your changes and be prepared to appease/explain/etc
- changes approved? your PR will be merged in.

Take a moment, do a happy dance or whatever your vibe is and repeat the process either on the same project or another one you may have found in the wild.

Note: I may be back to flesh out any of the steps once I reunite with my notes :D
